.TH CAIGED-CONTAINERS 1 "February 2026" "caiged" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
caiged-containers \- Manage caiged Docker containers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B caiged containers
\fIsubcommand\fR [\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B caiged containers
provides commands for managing caiged Docker containers.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B list
List all active caiged containers with their status, connection information, server port, and password. Shows both running and stopped containers with styled output including project names, container IDs, status, OpenCode server URLs, passwords, and connection commands.
.TP
.B shell \fIcontainer-name\fR
Open an interactive shell in a container for debugging. Takes a container name or ID to connect to.
.TP
.B stop \fIcontainer-name\fR [\fB\-\-remove\fR|\fB\-r\fR]
Stop a specific caiged container. By default, the container is preserved and can be resumed later with all installed packages and changes intact. Use the \fB\-\-remove\fR or \fB\-r\fR flag to stop and remove the container.
.TP
.B stop-all
Stop all caiged containers. This forcefully removes all containers managed by caiged.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List all running containers:
.B caiged containers list
.TP
Open a shell in a container by name:
.B caiged containers shell caiged-qa-my-app
.TP
Stop a container (preserves it for resuming):
.B caiged containers stop caiged-qa-my-app
.TP
Stop and remove a container:
.B caiged containers stop \-\-remove caiged-qa-my-app
.TP
Stop all containers:
.B caiged containers stop-all
.SH CONTAINER LIST OUTPUT
The
.B list
subcommand displays containers in a formatted table with:
.IP \(bu 2
Project name (extracted from container name)
.IP \(bu 2
Full container name
.IP \(bu 2
Status (e.g., "Up 2 hours")
.IP \(bu 2
OpenCode server URL (e.g., "http://localhost:4096")
.IP \(bu 2
Server password (for manual connections)
.IP \(bu 2
Connect command (copy-paste ready)
.IP \(bu 2
Shell command (for direct container access)
.PP
The output uses color coding:
.IP \(bu 2
Green for running containers
.IP \(bu 2
Yellow for stopped containers
.IP \(bu 2
Cyan for project names
.SH SHELL BEHAVIOR
The
.B shell
subcommand connects to the container's shell (default: /bin/zsh) for debugging and maintenance tasks. This is different from the
.B caiged connect
command which connects to the OpenCode TUI client.
.SH STOP BEHAVIOR
The
.B stop
subcommand stops a specific container by default without removing it. This allows you to preserve all installed packages, configuration changes, and files. To resume a stopped container, simply run
.B caiged run
again from the same directory. Use the
.B \-\-remove
(or
.BR \-r )
flag to stop and remove the container if you no longer need it.
.SH STOP-ALL BEHAVIOR
The
.B stop-all
subcommand forcefully removes all caiged containers using
.BR "docker rm -f" .
This will terminate all running OpenCode sessions. Use with caution as unsaved work may be lost.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR caiged (1),
.BR caiged-connect (1),
.BR docker (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the caiged development team.
