.TH CAIGED-CONNECT 1 "February 2026" "caiged" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
caiged-connect \- Connect to an OpenCode server with the TUI client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B caiged connect
\fIcontainer-name\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B caiged connect
launches the OpenCode TUI client connected to a running container by container name. This allows you to connect to any running caiged container from any directory.
.PP
The command verifies the container exists and is running, retrieves its connection information, and launches
.BR opencode\ attach
with the appropriate URL and credentials.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I container-name
The full container name to connect to (e.g., "caiged-qa-my-app"). Use
.B caiged containers list
to see all available container names.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Connect to a container:
.B caiged connect caiged-qa-my-app
.TP
Connect to a dev spin container:
.B caiged connect caiged-dev-my-project
.SH CONTAINER NAMING
Containers are named using the format:
.B caiged-{spin}-{project}
.PP
The full container name must be provided to the connect command. Use
.B caiged containers list
to see all container names.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B container does not exist
No container with the provided name was found. Use
.B caiged containers list
to see all available containers.
.TP
.B container is not running
The container exists but is stopped. Resume it with
.B caiged run .
from the project directory.
.TP
.B no port found for container
The container exists but doesn't have port information in its labels. This may indicate an older container using legacy configuration.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR caiged (1),
.BR caiged-containers (1),
.BR opencode (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the caiged development team.
