.TH CAIGED-SESSION 1 "February 2026" "caiged" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
caiged-session \- Manage OpenCode server sessions and containers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B caiged session
\fIsubcommand\fR [\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B caiged session
provides commands for managing running caiged containers and their associated OpenCode server sessions.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B list
List all active caiged containers with their status and connection information. Shows both running and stopped containers with styled output including project names, container IDs, status, and connection commands.
.TP
.B attach \fIsession-or-workdir\fR
Attach to a container shell for debugging. Can take either a container name/ID or a working directory path. When given a directory, it behaves like
.B caiged
but attaches to the container shell instead of the OpenCode TUI.
.TP
.B restart \fIworkdir\fR
Stop the container for a project and restart it. This is useful when you need to apply configuration changes or recover from issues.
.TP
.B stop-all
Stop all caiged containers. This forcefully removes all containers managed by caiged.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List all running containers:
.B caiged session list
.TP
Attach to a container shell by name:
.B caiged session attach caiged-qa-my-app
.TP
Attach to a container shell by directory:
.B caiged session attach .
.TP
Restart a container:
.B caiged session restart .
.TP
Stop all containers:
.B caiged session stop-all
.SH SESSION LIST OUTPUT
The
.B list
subcommand displays containers in a formatted table with:
.IP \(bu 2
Project name (extracted from container name)
.IP \(bu 2
Full container name
.IP \(bu 2
Status (e.g., "Up 2 hours")
.IP \(bu 2
Connect command (copy-paste ready)
.IP \(bu 2
Shell command (for direct container access)
.PP
The output uses color coding:
.IP \(bu 2
Green for running containers
.IP \(bu 2
Yellow for stopped containers
.IP \(bu 2
Cyan for project names
.SH ATTACH BEHAVIOR
The
.B attach
subcommand connects to the container's shell (default: /bin/zsh) for debugging and maintenance tasks. This is different from the default
.B caiged
behavior which connects to the OpenCode TUI client.
.PP
When given a directory path, it will:
.IP 1. 3
Determine the project name from the directory
.IP 2. 3
Find the matching container
.IP 3. 3
Execute an interactive shell inside the container
.SH RESTART BEHAVIOR
The
.B restart
subcommand will:
.IP 1. 3
Stop and remove the existing container
.IP 2. 3
Start a new container with the same configuration
.IP 3. 3
Attach to the new container's OpenCode server
.PP
All flags from the original container creation (network settings, mounts, etc.) should be provided again.
.SH STOP-ALL BEHAVIOR
The
.B stop-all
subcommand forcefully removes all caiged containers using
.BR "docker rm -f" .
This will terminate all running OpenCode sessions. Use with caution as unsaved work may be lost.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR caiged (1),
.BR caiged-connect (1),
.BR docker (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the caiged development team.
