.TH CAIGED-PORT 1 "February 2026" "caiged" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
caiged-port \- Show the OpenCode server port for a project
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B caiged port
\fIproject-name\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B caiged port
displays connection information for a running container by project name. This includes:
.IP \(bu 2
Container name
.IP \(bu 2
OpenCode server URL (HTTP endpoint)
.IP \(bu 2
Complete attach command with credentials
.PP
This command is useful for debugging, scripting, or when you need to manually connect to a container's OpenCode server.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I project-name
The project name or slug to query. This can be the full project name or any portion that uniquely identifies the container.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Show connection info for a project:
.B caiged port my-app
.PP
Example output:
.nf
    Container: caiged-qa-my-app
    OpenCode server: http://localhost:4096
    Attach command: opencode attach http://localhost:4096 --dir /workspace --password abc123xyz
.fi
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
The output provides three pieces of information:
.TP
.B Container
The full Docker container name.
.TP
.B OpenCode server
The HTTP URL where the OpenCode server is listening.
.TP
.B Attach command
A complete command that can be copied and pasted to connect manually using the
.BR opencode
CLI.
.SH SCRIPTING
This command is useful in scripts where you need to programmatically determine connection information:
.PP
.nf
    port_info=$(caiged port my-app)
    url=$(echo "$port_info" | grep "OpenCode server" | cut -d' ' -f3)
.fi
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B no running container found for project
No container matching the provided project name was found.
.TP
.B no port found for container
The container exists but doesn't have port information in its labels.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR caiged (1),
.BR caiged-connect (1),
.BR caiged-session (1),
.BR opencode (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the caiged development team.
